Now whilst we're able to add product to the cart
now with this code, let's make sure we can also display them when fetching them, when going to the cart's
page here, to this page because right now we don't support this page because we still have that route
commented out and we've got no logic to fetch all cart items anyways. So time to go into the controllers
folder into the shop.js file where we do have the get cart route.
Now this request user get cart thing will not work anymore,
so let's make it work.
Let's go back to the user model and in there we have add to cart,
let's now also call or add a get cart method,
you could name it however you want of course.
The idea here is that we do indeed return the cart items,
so that in the controller we have the cart items there and we can start outputting them, in the end what
we need as you can tell is just the products, right,
so we want to have a list of the products with the respective quantities.
Now get cart exists on the user who already has this cart property,
this is the mongodb way of thinking about relations,
we don't need to reach out to a cart collection because there is no such collection, instead
here we can simply return this cart and that's it,
this gives us access to the user cart.
Obviously we could have directly accessed the cart property on the user if we wanted to. You could add more
logic to transform it or anything like that
but in the shop.js controller, I can now already call get cart and have the cart
therefore. Now on that cart
I can't call get products though but I don't need to because the products are also already included in
the cart or at least their references,
right
because what I'm storing in the user model with add to cart is the ID of every product,
this is what we store. Now and that is exactly something we can change in get cart, instead of just returning
this cart,
it would be interesting to return a fully populated cart, so a cart with all the product details which
we also require. And to do this,
we of course have to reach out to the database again,
so let's get access to our database client and let's return the result of a database operation where
I do reach out to the products collection now because I have all the user data, I have all the cart data,
now I need to fill it with some live from the products database
and there I want to find all products that are in my cart.
Now how can I do that?
Well for this, we can use a special query syntax mongodb supports. In find I can tell, I can say
I want to find all products where _id is equal to
and now I don't pass an ID here because I'm not looking for a single ID
instead I pass an object because this allows me to use some special mongodb query operators of
which there are many covered in detail in my mongodb course or in the official docs of course but
we are looking for the $in operator. And this operator takes an array of IDs and therefore
every ID which is in the array will be accepted and will get back a cursor which holds references to
all products with one of the IDs mentioned in this array.
So all we need to do is construct such an array,
so product IDs can be constructed by using this cart items
and remember, this is an array of objects that look like this,
so objects that have a product ID and the quantity.
Now we're only interested in the product ID here,
so I'll simply map this,
this is a default javascript function, I'll map this to transform every item in there and I simply want to
return the product ID.
So what I'm doing is I'm mapping an array of items where every item is a javascript object into an array
of just strings, of just the product IDs and this is then stored in this new product IDs constant. This
is
then my array which I want to use here to tell mongodb give me all elements where the ID is
one of the IDs mentioned in this array here.
So this gives me a cursor with all the matching products,
now I'll again use toArray to quickly get that converted to a javascript array and then I'll add a then
method.
So in this then method, I'll have all my product data for the products that were in my cart.
Now of course we want to add the quantity back to every product because that is something that is important
to us,
now how can we get that information back into there?
Well in this
then block, I'll again return a mapped version of my data, so a mapped version of my products array where
every product will be converted
a little bit. I'll return a new object for every product which is fine because every product is an object
and I'll distribute all the existing properties,
so I want to keep all the data I retrieved but then I'll add a new quantity property and that quantity
property of course needs to be populated with data
I know or I have on that product.
Now we of course have the products stored in the cart of this user,
so what I can do is I can use this cart and make sure you use arrow functions here to ensure that this inside
of this function still refers to the overall class, with normal functions
it would not, so use this cart in here, access my items and simply find the item with that ID at hand here.
So here I'll have my cart item again and I'll return true if that item has a product ID toString, that
is equal to the product _id to string of the product we just fetched from the database.
So this can look confusing but in the end I have an array of products here fresh from the database,
then I want to transform this which I'm doing with map, map takes a function that executes on every element
and products which describes how to transform this element, here
I'm basically returning the new value which is an object where I still have all the old product properties
but I add a new quantity property and to get the right quantity for that given product, I reach out to
my cart
items which exist on that user
and I again use a built in javascript method, find to look at all elements in cart items with this function
here and then identify the one product where the product ID I'm storing in my cart items matches the
ID of the product I have fetched from the database
and since with map I'm going through all these products, this will also vary for every run.
Now the last thing is this whole thing here,
the whole find method
in the end just gives me the product object,
I want to get the quantity though.
So now from the cart items I have, I extract a quantity for the given product.
And now with that code, get cart should return products which are enriched with all the data that is stored
in a product's collection because in users in the cart we'll only store the reference
and this is what we need to do in mongodb if we then have a connection between two collections
with a reference, we need to merge them manually as we are doing it here
and with that merging being done manually here, we can now use that data.
So get cart should now return a cart with all the information we need,
so on the user we can call get cart and then we know we get back some products here, so we can delete
that here
as well as this and then render our view with the products we fetched.
Now on that view, so the shop cart
view here, we just need to make sure we output our products correctly because we cycle through them
but now due to the way how we merge this,
every product will itself already have the quantity here and whenever we use .id, we should have
_id as you learned.
Let's see if that works by going to our routes folder and there the shop.js file and let's add that
get cart route again.
So I'll reload this cart page here and this is looking pretty good,
now let me add a new product,
third with some image and some description. Now this exists, not in the cart though unless I add it to
the cart.
Once I do that and I go to the cart, we see it there too.
Now the one thing that is still not working is that if I do add a cart item, we're stuck,
let's fix this in the next lecture.